---
layout: post
title:  "TeamWork"
date:   2025-05-22 22:07:00 -0400
categories: HTB-sherlock threat-intelligence easy
tags: CTF writeup eml log 
image:
    path: assets/img/htb/TeamWork/banner.png
---

### CHALLENGE DESCRIPTION
It is Friday afternoon and the SOC at Edny Consulting Ltd has received alerts from the workstation of Jason Longfield, a software engineer on the development team, regarding the execution of some discovery commands. Jason has just gone on holiday and is not available by phone. The workstation appears to have been switched off, so the only evidence we have at the moment is an export of his mailbox containing today's messages. As the company was recently the victim of a supply chain attack, this case is being taken seriously and the Cyber Threat Intelligence team is being called in to determine the severity of the threat.

### SOLUTION 

**Identify the sender of the suspicious email.**

Open any email, we should see something like this
```
From: TLDR InfoSec <dan@tldrnewsletter.com>
To: jasonlongfield@edny.net
Subject: 49K Building Systems Exposed =?utf-8?Q?=F0=9F=8F=A2=2C?= Cellebrite
```

Now filter all the emails
```bash
grep "From: " * | sort -u | cut -d '<' -f2
```

`sort -u` to filter unique emails, `cut -d '<' -f2` to get the seconde field from `<` character. Now let try all of them =))

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
theodore.todtenhaupt@developingdreams.site
</details>

**The suspicious email came from a custom domain, identify its creation date.**

Hint
> If the domain is expired or the WHOIS is somehow unavailable, you can find a WHOIS Lookup saved [here](https://web.archive.org/web/20250219112815/https://www.whois.com/whois/developingdreams.site)

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
2025-01-31
</details>

**The domain was registered shortly before the suspicious email was received, which likely corresponds to the time when the threat actor was planning this campaign. Which MITRE ATT&CK sub-technique of the Resource Development tactic corresponds to this activity?**

We go to [MITRE ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/campaigns/) and search for `Resource Development` on the top right search bar, and click on it.

From previous question, it asks about domain, let read through the techniques, and we will see the domain sub-technique.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
T1583.001
</details>

**The previously identified domain appears to belong to a company, what is the full URL of the company's page on X (formerly Twitter)?**i

Look at the domain's name and hint from question.

It took me lots of time to figure it out, f*ckkkk

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
https://x.com/Develop_Dreams
</details>

**Reading the suspicious email carefully, it appears that the threat actor first contacted the victim using the previously identified social media profile. Which MITRE ATT&CK sub-technique of the Resource Development tactic corresponds to this activity?**

Search for `social media`

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
T1585.001
</details>

**What is the name of the game the threat actor would like us to collaborate on?**

Click on that link, search for `threat actor` we will see 2 links, open those and search for game.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
DeTankWar
</details>

**What is the SHA-256 hash of the executable shared by the threat actor?**

Search for `SHA-256`

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
56554117d96d12bd3504ebef2a8f28e790dd1fe583c33ad58ccbf614313ead8c
</details>

**As part of the preparation of the tools for the attack, the threat actor hosted this file, presumably malware, on its infrastructure. Which MITRE ATT&CK sub-technique of the Resource Development tactic corresponds to this activity?**

Search for `infrastructure`

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
T1608.001
</details>

**Based on the information you have gathered so far, do some research to identify the name of the threat actor who may have carried out this attack.**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
Moonstone Slee
</details>

**What nation is the threat actor believed to be associated with?**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
North Korea
</details>

**Another campaign from this threat actor used a trojanized version of a well-known software to infect victims. What is the name of this tool?**

On the top right, we will see search bar, look for `Moonstone Sleet`, click on it, and search for trojan

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
Putty
</details>

**Which MITRE ATT&CK technique corresponds to the activity of deploying trojanized/manipulated software?**

Search for `trojanized`, we will see distributed
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
T1195.002
</details>

**Our company wants to protect itself from other supply chain attacks, so in documenting more about this threat actor, the CTI team found that other security researchers were also tracking a group whose techniques closely match Moonstone Sleet, and discovered a new supply chain campaign around the end of July 2024. What technology is this campaign targeting?**

Ahhhhh, I wasted lots of time for this. After searching like crazy with the hint from question, I got nothing.

I decided to ask ChatGPT, and well... We have the answer here.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
NPM
</details>

**We now need some indicators to be able to rule out that other systems have been compromised. What is the name and version of the lastest malicious package published? (Format: package-name vX.X.X)**

Ask ChatGPT

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
harthat-hash v1.3.3
</details>

**The malicious packages downloaded an additional payload from a C2 server, what is its IP address?**

Search the name of malicious package and we will have the IP.
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
142.111.77.196
</details>

**The payload, after being renamed, is finally executed by a legitimate Windows binary to evade defenses. Which MITRE ATT&CK technique corresponds to this activity?**

Ask ChatGTP
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
T1218.011
</details>

