---
layout: post
title:  "Meerkat"
date:   2025-05-29 22:07:00 -0400
categories: HTB-sherlock SOC easy
tags: CTF writeup wireshark json
image:
    path: assets/img/htb/Meerkat/banner.png
---

### CHALLENGE DESCRIPTION
As a fast-growing startup, Forela has been utilising a business management platform. Unfortunately, our documentation is scarce, and our administrators aren't the most security aware. As our new security provider we'd like you to have a look at some PCAP and log data we have exported to confirm if we have (or have not) been compromised.

### SOLUTION 

**We believe our Business Management Platform server has been compromised. Please can you confirm the name of the application running?**

We can upload our `JSON file` on `CyberChef` and use `JSON beautify`. Search for `CVE`

We can answer both task 1 and task 3

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
Bonitasoft
</details>

**We believe the attacker may have used a subset of the brute forcing attack category - what is the name of the attack carried out?**

Luckily, I read through all tasks and found the answer at `task 5`.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
credential stuffing
</details>

**Does the vulnerability exploited have a CVE assigned - and if so, which one?**

Search for `CVE`

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
CVE-2022-25237
</details>

**Which string was appended to the API URL path to bypass the authorization filter by the attacker's exploit?**

Search `CVE` we have found on Google, read the description and we can find the API URL.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
i18ntranslation
</details>

**How many combinations of usernames and passwords were used in the credential stuffing attack?**

``
http.request.method == "POST" && frame.len != 105 && frame.len < 200 && !json
``

- When attackers login, they will use method `POST`, so we need to filter `http.request.method == "POST"`

- We just need to see combinations of username and password, so the length of info is around 100 - 200; While analyze, we will see that some of the packets have the same username and password (install:install), so we need to filter out frame length 105, and no json.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
56
</details>

**Which username and password combination was successful?**

Filter `http.request.method == "GET"`, scroll down and we will see packet's info execute command `whoami`, right click on packet and follow.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
seb.broom@forela.co.uk:g0vernm3nt
</details>

**If any, which text sharing site did the attacker utilise?**

Filter `http.request.method == "GET"`, we will see packet with command `wget`

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
pastes.io
</details>

**Please provide the filename of the public key used by the attacker to gain persistence on our host.**

Copy the link and paste into URL, we will get the filename.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
hffgra4unv
</details>

**Can you confirm the file modified by the attacker to gain persistence?**

Get the answer from above.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
/home/ubuntu/.ssh/authorized_keys
</details>

**Can you confirm the MITRE technique ID of this type of persistence mechanism?**

Search the path above on Google with keyword `MITRE ATTK` and we will get the answer.

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
T1098.004
</details>
