---
layout: post
title:  "Payload"
date:   2025-06-05 02:07:00 -0400
categories: HTB-sherlock Malware-Analysis easy
tags: CTF writeup malware
image:
    path: assets/img/htb/Payload/banner.jpeg
---

### CHALLENGE DESCRIPTION
You’ve completed Training Day — congrats, rookie. Now the real game begins. An unmarked binary just landed on your desk. It’s acting shady, tripping a few alarms, but no one's sure what it really is. Malware? Or just a misunderstood piece of code? Your mission: reverse-engineer the program, trace its behavior, and uncover the truth. Every line of code could be a clue—or a trap. Welcome to your first real case.

### SOLUTION 

**What is the SHA256 hash of func_pointer.exe?**

Upload file on VirusTotal

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
EDD41B4A819F917F81203424730AAF0C24CC95E40ACFC0F1BD90B11DADF58015
</details>

**What compiler is being used?**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
mingW
</details>

**What is the compilation date?**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
2023-04-06 15:21:17
</details>

**Is ASLR enabled? (True or False)**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
False
</details>

**What is the image base address?**

Upload on Binary Ninja Cloud, search for `image`

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
0x140000000
</details>

**What is the entry point?**

Search for `entry`

<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
0x1125
</details>

**What are the first 8 bytes of the encrypted payload that is being moved to allocated memory? (format: daffd563616c632e)**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
unsolved
</details>

**What is the key for decryption in hex?**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
unsolved
</details>

**What is the address of the decrypted payload?**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
unsolved
</details>

**What are the first 8 bytes of the decrypted payload that is being moved to allocated memory? (format: daffd563616c632e)**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
unsolved
</details>

**There are several functions that are not in the import table but are invoked. Which of these functions starts with V?**
<details>
<summary><b>Answer</b></summary>
VirtualAllocEx
</details>

